---
layout: post
title: Approaching Coding as a Beginner
date: 2020-06-05 16:45:00 -500
categories: jekyll update 
---
When I started learning to program about a year ago, I remember feeling rather intimidated. I wanted to change my life for the better, and I was excited to try to start a career in tech. At the same time, I knew that I was subtly doubting I could do it. Me becoming a software engineer? It just seemed too far fetched. Now that I'm much more comfortable with fundamental concepts, it's very easy to forget that there was a time relatively recently when doing a 'for' loop was difficult (if I'm being honest, I'm still not even totally comfortable with doing [list comprehensions](https://realpython.com/list-comprehension-python/ "LEARN IT")). Now that I'm more comfortable with the practice, I've relaxed a lot and really enjoy it. Programming has **finally** started to become an outlet of self expression for me, and I couldn't be happier that I stuck with it. *But I almost didn't.*


That intimidation and self-doubt really tend to absolutely suck the fun out of everything. I was so concerned with learning quickly so I could find a good job that I didn't stop to really enjoy the tools I was being given. I did my python Udemy course every day for at least two hours, and while this did help me learn fundamentals quickly, it only took a few months for me to become truly sick of it. I took an extended break from my programming endeavors, and I began doing other things. I felt like I hadn't found the things in programming that had led me to try it in the first place - innovation, curiosity, problem-solving and critical thinking. In reality, *I wasn't seeing those things because I wasn't practicing them.* 


It wasn't until the Corona virus came around that I started to realize this. I'd watched a **ton** of [Michael Reeves](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtHaxi4GTYDpJgMSGy7AeSw 'Seriously watch him') and [Tren Black](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSSBvqWNPq_qO3_W4EJiOAA 'Watch his videos') on Youtube. I messed around with some 'what if' scenarios. What if I just made a password generator? What would that look like? What if I wanted to securely manage those passwords? Then my friends and I made a script to cheat at Skribbli.io. Then we made a guessing game that relentlessly insults the player. THEN I began making a series of command line tools to help me with my workflow. **I started having fun**. And let me tell you, dear reader - that's the way to learn. Embracing creativity is so terribly liberating. It motivates me to sit in front of my computer for hours - *hours*, people - just so that I can learn more fun and useful tools (which I in turn use to make "marginally useful but fun" things).

Don't get me wrong though: **sometimes, programming isn't "fun"**. I don't get a giant hit of dopemine whenever I open up the Python docs. But I *do* frame that experience in a very different way than before. I was so wrapped up in my own self-doubt that I didn't *see* myself as a programmer. I didn't feel like a developer at all - I felt like an idiot cramming a Udemy course. But once I just *started doing*, once I just let go and started trying to bring the things in my head to life, I *became* a programmer. The best part is that this is a positive-feedback loop. Once I realized that I in fact *could* make things, the doors blew off their hinges. Now when I open the Python docs, I'm a *hunter*. I solve problems, I follow my curiosity. I could spend all day in the garage (where my setup is) listening to music, learning things, and trying to implement them myself. I'm a maker. So I'm glad that I took a break and re-approached this field with a healthier, more constructive mindset. 

And you know what? I love it so much that I'm going to do it for the rest of my life.                  