---
layout: post
title: Should I Attend your Bootcamp?
date:  2020-06-10 11:51:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---

## Here's a big, big question that I'd like to share my thoughts on: Should I (or someone in general) pay $15,000 to attend the Flatiron School Software Engineer Bootcamp in Houston?

### There's a lot to unpack here, so hold on tightly to something other than yourself (thereby stablizing your body). 

I've been considering this option for a while, pretty much since I started learning to code. I've done a lot of research on this, so let me save you some time and tell you what you'll read on the internet or hear from a lot of software developers: 
> *Everything that you'd learn at a bootcamp is free online, so don't waste your money and just learn it yourself.*   
This is an absolutely true statement. I've been learning on my own for about a year now, and I can tell you first hand (from 
newbie to newbie, shhh don't tell anyone else) - *everything you'd ever need to know about most things is online for free*. In addition to this tremendous boon, teaching yourself new things frequently is part of the job of a software engineer, so being accustomed to that already can only help you.

So...case closed, right? Why would I **accumulate even more student debt** (my god) if I didn't have to?

The answer is really pretty simple, and I'll cleverly deliver it to you in the form of a question: 
> *Why do people go to college?*  
People go to university because they want to improve themselves and their quality of life (or their parents force them to for these reasons). I know this because I was one of these people, and personally I think that my endeavor to learn Chinese would've been much less successful if I hadn't gone to college to study it. Similarly, I want to give myself the best chance I can to make a career in tech. I'm serious about becoming a software developer, and so I am willing to shell out the **15,000 big ones** to help me make it a reality. I know that I could learn this stuff and eventually find a job doing it all on my own, and I don't doubt that I'll need to do that in the future. But I am **certain** that if do this program, I will make a career in tech. My certainty comes not from a blind faith in the company or the product they're offering, but from the knowledge that I'll seize this oppurtunity because I know what it's really worth. It comes from the knowledge that I've already learned so much on my own and that I truly enjoy doing it. All I need is the environment and the resources to make this thing happen. I want to dive head first into this industry, and this is how I can do that.  

Of course, I wouldn't have chosen a bootcamp that I didn't think could help me. 
I chose Flatiron School for several reasons:
	1. They have a great reputation
	2. They maintain a consistently high rate of job placement regardless of location (which you can clearly see in their job reports because...)
	3. They're very transparent 
	4. They clearly have a culture that values community and diversity 

After doing a some research, it was pretty obvious to me that Flatiron is the real deal. What I discovered about their culture is what really draws me to them. Rather than only emphasizing previous experience or personal skill, they seem to really care how their applicants work with other people and how they fit the culture of the school. In fact, this is the FIRST interiew you'll have with them, followed later by a technical interview if they think you'd be a good culture fit. No matter your background, if you enjoy coding, are a reasonably intelligent person, and familiarize with their culture, you have a chance to get into their program.
**What does this tell us about Flatiron School?**
It shows me that they're confident enough in their own program and curriculum that they don't need to rely on the prior technical skill of their applicants in order for them to find jobs...but truth be told, you could determine that just by looking at their job reports. No, what this tells me more than anything is that *this is an organization that I would want to be associated with*. They care about **who** they're taking on, they have a reputation to maintain. In addition to that, it shows that their focus is on the **people** - which is unique among the bootcamps I've looked into. They truly care about maintaining a diverse, interesting, and cohesive climate, centered around advancing understanding and science - which is precisely the environment I've dreamed of being in my entire life.

Anyway, that was a lot of reading huh? Lots of "ideas" in there. Lots of "considerations". 
Let me lay it down clearly: I paid a **lot** more for a degree that I wasn't nearly as certain I wanted as this. *Why does high school Ben get more of a say in the direction of my life as 23 year old Ben?* Life is just a *bit* too short for the price to be as big a hang up as it is for most people, **especially when it's such a certain thing as this**. 

And for me, this is an absolutely certain thing. If Flatiron school gives me the chance to work with them, I will *crush* it. But what if they don't give me that chance? 
....I'm going to crush it anyway.     